---
name: Session control
sort: 5
---

# Session control

Beego has a built-in session module. It supports memory, file, mysql, redis, couchbase, memcache and postgres as the save provider. You can also implement your own provider according to the interface.

It is very easy to use session in Beego, just switch session on in the main function:

	beego.SessionOn = true

Or you can switch it on in the configuration file:

	SessionOn = true

After switching on the session, you can use it like this:

```go
func (this *MainController) Get() {
	v := this.GetSession("asta")
	if v == nil {
		this.SetSession("asta", int(1))
		this.Data["num"] = 0
	} else {
		this.SetSession("asta", v.(int)+1)
		this.Data["num"] = v.(int)
	}
	this.TplNames = "index.tpl"
}
```

There are some useful methods to handle session:

- SetSession(name string, value interface{})
- GetSession(name string) interface{}
- DelSession(name string)
- SessionRegenerateID()
- DestroySession()

The most common used methods are `SetSession`, `GetSession`, and `DelSession`.

You can also use your own logic:

	sess := this.StartSession()
	defer sess.SessionRelease()

sess object has following methods:

* Set
* Get
* Delete
* SessionID
* SessionRelease
* Flush

But I recommend that you use SetSession, GetSession and DelSession to prevent forgetting to release resource by yourself.

Here are some parameters used in the Session module:

- SessionOn

  Enable Session or not, `false` by default. Parameter name in configuration file: `SessionOn`

- SessionProvider
  Set Session provider, which is set to memory by default. It also supports file, mysql and redis. Parameter name in configuration file: sessionprovider

- SessionName
  Set the cookie name. Session is stored in browser's cookies by default. The default name is beegosessionID. Parameter name in configuration file: sessionname.

- SessionGCMaxLifetime
  Set the Session expire time, `3600s` by default. Parameter name in configuration file: sessiongcmaxlifetime.

- SessionSavePath
  This is the save path or connection string for file, mysql or redis, empty by default. Parameter name in configuration file: sessionsavepath.

- SessionHashFunc
  Default value is `sha1` which means sessionid is generated by sha1.

- SessionHashKey
  Default key is beegoserversessionkey. We recommend you change this value.

- SessionCookieLifeTime
  The cookie expire time. The cookie is used to store data in client.

from beego version 1.1.3 onwards, Beego removed all the dependencies, if you use these storages: mysql, redis, couchbase, memcache, postgres. You should install them first:

	go get -u github.com/astaxie/beego/session/mysql

then you can import in `main.go`, the same as the `database/sql`:

	import _ "github.com/astaxie/beego/session/mysql"

When SessionProvider is file, SessionSavePath is the save path of session files. For example:

	beego.SessionProvider = "file"
	beego.SessionSavePath = "./tmp"

When SessionProvider is mysql, SessionSavePath is connection address which is using [go-sql-driver](https://github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql). For example:

	beego.SessionProvider = "mysql"
	beego.SessionSavePath = "username:password@protocol(address)/dbname?param=value"

When SessionProvider is redis, SessionSavePath is connection address for redis which is using [redigo](https://github.com/garyburd/redigo). For example:

	beego.SessionProvider = "redis"
	beego.SessionSavePath = "127.0.0.1:6379"

When SessionProvider is memcache，SessionSavePath is connection address for memcache which is using [memcache](https://github.com/beego/memcache). For example

	beego.SessionProvider = "memcache"
	beego.SessionSavePath = "127.0.0.1:7080"

When SessionProvider is postgres，SessionSavePath is connection address for postgres which is using [postgres](https://github.com/lib/pq). For example：

	beego.SessionProvider = "postgresql"
	beego.SessionSavePath = "postgres://pqgotest:password@localhost/pqgotest?sslmode=verify-full"

When SessionProvider is couchbase，SessionSavePath is connection address for couchbase which is using [couchbase](https://github.com/couchbaselabs/go-couchbase). For example：

	beego.SessionProvider = "couchbase"
	beego.SessionSavePath = "http://bucketname:bucketpass@myserver:8091/"
	
## Note:
Session uses `gob` to register objects. If you are using a session engine other than `memory`, please register the objects you use in session before using them. You can use `gob.Register()` to register them in `init()` function. 
